{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 Abilities similar to Din's Curse (no need to unlock higher tier skills) and other ARPGs.\par
\par
\strike Health DOES NOT regenerate on its own.\par
Mana DOES regenerate on its own.\strike0\par
\par
\strike Numbers:\strike0\par
\strike -Health\par
-Mana\par
-Level\par
-Experience\strike0\par
\cf1\strike -Hunger (maybe)\cf0\strike0\par
\strike -Thirst\strike0\par
\strike -Movement speed\strike0\par
\par
Creatures have a vector of statuses. When they walk through water or otherwise have water on them, they become wet.\par
They dry out at some rate (perhaps each dungeon level should have a temperature that affects this?).\par
If a wet creature is hit with something cold enough, like a frost spell, that creature becomes frozen. Etc.\par
\par
There are no classes. You do get a class name, but it is determined by your attributes and skills, and is just descriptive.\par
\strike Instead of choosing a class at the beginning of the game, you choose what skills to focus on.\strike0\par
\strike All skills and attributes start at pretty low defaults, which are the same every game (so no point in start-scumming). When you choose your focus, your focused skills increase a bit.\strike0\par
\strike Focused skills increase a little faster than regular ones.\strike0\par
\strike The player levels up in the classic way, by gaining enough experience points.\strike0\par
\strike Experience is gained through a variety of means, but the main one is obviously fighting monsters.\par
-You gain slightly more experience per skill-up for your focused skills.\strike0\par
\par
\strike Means of gaining experience:\strike0\par
\cf1\strike\tab Killing creatures.\cf0\strike0\par
\strike\tab Raising skills.\strike0\par
\par
Gender is selectable, but does not affect anything.\par
\strike Race can be chosen, and increases some skills, attributes, and grants abilities and more.\strike0\par
\strike All races in the game should be available to both the player and the monster generator.\strike0\par
\strike When you level up, you can select between 1 and 3 attributes to increase. The 1-3 range is determined by some function of the level.\strike0\par
\strike As a skill increases during a given level, it adds to a multiplier for the associated skill.\strike0\par
\strike This multiplier increases the amount by which the attribute is increased if selected during level-up.\par
For example, a x2 multiplier is on strength. The player levels up, and chooses to increase strength. Instead of only gaining 1 point of strength, you gain 2.\par
Instead of a multiplier, I am going with a straight up number increase. Like, a +1 bonus, for instance.\strike0\par
\par
\strike Attributes increase much more slowly than skills.\strike0\par
\par
\cf1\strike Attributes, skills, etc., should be doubles, and can increase by a decimal amount. UPDATE: I think I am changing them back to simple shorts.\cf0\strike0\par
\par
There should be some things that can give penalties to offensive and defensive actions, as well.\par
For offensive, wielding a weapon you shouldn't be gives a pretty big damage reduction.\par
You must have enough strength to wield a given item, or you will fail to use it in some way (straight up can't attack, damage reduction, etc.)\par
If you wear armor you shouldn't wear, it will give a reduction to movement speed, chance to hit, chance to dodge, and chance to crit.\par
If you wear non-magic user armor, you will suffer a penalty to magic damage.\par
If a creature attacks with one weapon that is too heavy, his total damage that attack will be cut in half. If it uses two weapons that are too heavy, the damage is cut to a fourth. Also, weapon skills are not improved when wielding a weapon that is too heavy.\par
\par
\strike Each time you level up, you gain max health and max mana.\strike0\par
\par
Attributes:\par
\strike -Strength\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases melee damage.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases ranged damage slightly.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases thrown damage slightly.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases carrying capacity.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases throwing distance.\par
\tab -Increases ranged distance (more than the throwing bonus).\strike0\par
-Agility\par
\strike\tab -Increases chance to hit with all attacks.\par
\tab -Increases chance to dodge all attacks.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases chance to score a critical hit with all attacks.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases movement speed.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases ranged damage slightly (more than strength).\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases thrown damage slightly (more than strength).\strike0\par
\tab -Increases stealth abilities (maybe).\par
\strike -Hardiness\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases health.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases carrying capacity slightly.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases damage absorbed by all armor.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases movement speed slightly.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Allows the creature to survive longer without water.\strike0\par
-Comprehension\par
\strike\tab -Increases mana.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases mana regeneration rate slightly.\strike0\par
\tab -Increases magic damage.\par
-Acumen\par
\strike\tab -Increases mana regeneration rate.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Increases mana slightly.\strike0\par
\tab -Increases magic resistance.\par
-Luck\par
\tab -Affects chances for lots of things.\par
\par
\strike Encumbrances:\strike0\par
\strike Anything beyond unencumbered reduces Speed.\strike0\par
\strike Anything beyond unencumbered reduces Agility slightly.\strike0\par
\strike At overloaded, the creature cannot move.\par
\tab Unburdened\par
\tab Slightly Burdened\par
\tab Somewhat Burdened\par
\tab Quite Burdened\par
\tab Heavily Burdened\par
\tab Overburdened\strike0\par
\par
\strike Each skill is governed by one attribute.\strike0\par
\strike Luck does not govern any skills.\strike0\par
\strike Skills increase by using the associated stuff.\strike0\par
\strike The Comprehension and Acumen skills are the schools of magic.\strike0\par
\par
\strike Experience should have diminishing returns when fighting monsters far below your level.\strike0\par
\cf1\strike The same should be true of skills that require fighting enemies.\cf0\strike0\par
\par
Skills:\par
\strike -Governed by Strength\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Melee Weapons\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increased by using the melee weapons in the associated category.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases damage done by the associated melee weapon category.\par
\tab\tab\tab -Bladed Weapons\par
\tab\tab\tab -Blunt Weapons\par
\tab\tab\tab -Stabbing Weapons\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Unarmed\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increased by using hands in place of a melee weapon.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases damage done by hands.\strike0\par
-Governed by Agility\par
\tab -Security\par
\tab\tab -Increased by picking locks and disabling traps. Also increased by discovering traps, secret doors, and trapdoors.\par
\tab\tab -Increases success chance of picking locks and disabling traps. Also increases chance to detect traps and secret doors.\par
\tab -Stealth\par
\tab\tab -Increased by \par
\tab\tab -Increases \par
\strike\tab -Ranged Weapons\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using the ranged weapons in the associated category.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases damage done by the associated ranged weapon category.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab\tab -Launcher Weapons\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab\tab -Thrown Weapons (only affects actual throwing weapons, not just any item being thrown)\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Dual Wielding\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increased by attacking with two melee weapons equipped at once.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases damage done with two melee weapons equipped at once.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Speed\strike0\par
\tab\strike\tab -Increased by moving. The lighter your load, the faster this skill increases.\strike0\par
\tab\strike\tab -Increases movement speed.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Fighting\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increased by attacking.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases chance to hit.\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Dodging\par
\tab\tab -Increased by being attacked.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases chance to dodge.\strike0\par
\strike -Governed by Hardiness\strike0\par
\strike\tab -Armor\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increased by doing things while wearing armor. The heavier the armor, the faster this skill increases.\strike0\par
\strike\tab\tab -Increases damage absorbed by armor.\par
\tab\tab -Slightly decreases the weight contribution from armor items in your inventory.\strike0\par
-Governed by Comprehension\par
\tab -Air Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using air magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of air magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for air magic.\par
\tab -Fire Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using fire magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of fire magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for fire magic.\par
\tab -Water Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using water magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of water magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for water magic.\par
\tab -Cold Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using cold magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of cold magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for cold magic.\par
-Governed by Acumen\par
\tab -Earth Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using earth magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of earth magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for earth magic.\par
\tab -Conjuration Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using conjuration magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of conjuration magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for conjuration magic.\par
\tab -Enchantment Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using enchantment magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of enchantment magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for enchantment magic.\par
\tab -Summoning Magic\par
\tab\tab -Increased by using summoning magic (regardless of success).\par
\tab\tab -Increases effectiveness of summoning magic.\par
\tab\tab -Decreases chance of spell failure for summoning magic.\par
\par
Abilities:\par
-\par
}
 